# PyCitySchools_Analysis
Summary:

	For this report, I was given access to comprehensive data detailing student’s math and reading scores, alongside other relevant school-related information. It reveals that Charter schools consistently outperform District schools in both math and reading, despite potential differences in budget allocation. The highest-performing schools, primarily Charter schools, demonstrate high average scores, passing rates, and overall academic success, while the bottom-performing schools, mainly District schools, face challenges in achieving comparable outcomes. Additionally, larger-sized schools tend to have lower academic performance compared to smaller and medium-sized schools. When studying academic performance outcome via grade level, students of all grades had similar performances and averages in both math and reading. What is noticeable is that reading grades had higher averages than math averages. There seemed to be more variety with math grades than reading, with math grades varying between 76-85 and reading grades ranging between 80-85. By a noticeable margin, the top 5 best performing schools were Charter schools whereas the bottom 5 were District. One reason may be due to Charter schools having a lesser number of students, but the data did not show a strong correlation to this conclusion. Overall, the data highlights the importance of effective teaching strategies, supportive learning environments, and holistic student support systems in fostering academic excellence across all schools in the district. Other factors such as budget allocation were not as critical in determining academic success than one might assume. Perhaps understanding in specifics how the budget is used for Charter Schools versus District Schools will yield a greater understanding of the impact between academic success and budget correlation.

Upon further analyses, the following are some conclusions we can take away from this dataset:

Academic Success and Budget Correlation 
	One finding that was evident in the data was that Charter schools consistently outperformed District schools in relation to average scores in both math and reading. For example, Charter schools had higher average math scores (83) compared to District schools (76-77). Charter school students also outperformed in reading scores on average with Charter averages at 83-84 and District averages at 80-81. Charter schools seem to have much greater success in math scores compared to District schools, meanwhile the reading scores are more or less similar. To understand why Charter schools have more academic achievement, one might assume that there may be a correlation between budget allocation and academic performance. However, despite having a lower budget than District schools, Charter schools exhibit higher academic achievement, indicating that factors other than financial resources influence student success. Other factors that contribute to this may be teaching methodologies, parental involvement which was not measured in the original dataset. What we can conclude is that a higher budget does not necessarily correlate to greater rates of academic success. 

Academic Success and School Size 

One thing that is important to note is the discrepancy in number of students between District and Charter schools. District schools have a greater number of students, ranging between 2300 and 4900, meanwhile Charter schools have half that. What we know about larger schools based on the Scores by School size, is that large size schools consistently exhibited lower average scores for both math and reading. This finding indicates that there may be challenges in providing enough attention for students as well as adequate support services, which may negatively impact academic performance. To further support this, small and medium sized schools with 1000-2000 students showed better performance levels than large-sized schools. The data suggests that some students in small schools scored higher in both math and reading, contributing to higher average scores, but the number of students achieving higher scores (70 or more) in small schools was slightly less compared to medium schools. While the margins of success are only slightly higher, it does indicate to some degree that school size does impact academic success. To promote academic success in schools of all sizes, it may be best to take a holistic approach that considers multiple factors in a students’ education. 
